---
layout: post
title:      "How I got into Data Science"
date:       2019-10-29 02:42:51 +0000
permalink:  how_i_got_into_data_science
---


Growing up in the 90s I was terribly afraid of math and logic. It was drilled into my head that girls weren't great at math and I deeply  internalized  that. I did poorly in math and any science class that didn't require rote memorization. However, I didn't realize I was a girl at the time. I failed algebra my freshman year of high school. Then I was somehow able to pass the California high school proficiency exam but continued to fail algebra in college. It took about three tries before I finally passed and could take intermediate algebra. At the time I was majoring in anthropology, so I only needed to pass that class to be able to take statistics. That took me at least two tries to be able to finally take a transferable math course. Statistics was quite the struggle too, mainly because I just wanted to transfer. Eventually I was able to finish it with a B and transfer to UC Davis. However, this was just the beginning. 

Going to UC Davis was exciting and I was pretty happy to be there, but I quickly found out that I didn't really enjoy anthropology. This, compounded with other problems, eventually led to me having a mental breakdown. My spouse and I left Davis and ended up living with her folks in Manteca about an hour and change south. I decided I'd major in electrical engineering, something I always wanted to do, but never felt I could. It was very daunting looking at the required coursework to see I needed about 6-7 math classes, 3 physics classes, 1 chemistry class, programming in C++ or Java, and circuits, to be able to transfer to a CSU or UC. Altogether it took about 4 years to make it through all the lower division coursework because I still didn't think I could do it. Some professors also weren't as helpful as others. My living environment also wasn't optimal in the slightest. Let's just say I had to spend a lot of time cleaning and being depressed when I should have been studying. The hardest classes I had were pre-calculus II, calculus II, and physics: mechanics. I ended up having to re-take all three classes. The rest of the classes were easy by comparison. Somehow, I managed to do pretty well in the end and ended up transferring to San Jose State.

It was nice to be able to live at home again and go to school in a familiar area. I still had differential equations to take for my program though. I neglected to take it in community college because the worst math professor in the college taught it two semesters in a row and I didn't have time to wait for someone else to teach it. I surprised myself by not only getting a B but get a 3.6 for the semester. Unfortunately, the following semester did not go well at all, but it helped lead me to my pursuit of a data science career. First, I came to the realization that I'm trans. That brought a lot of really strong feelings with it that made it hard to focus on my studies. Second, I developed a bad case of iritis, that was misdiagnosed as something related to the flu I had at the time. This caused me to be afflicted with it for nearly a month. Ultimately, I ended up withdrawing for the semester, but not before I had my first taste of what Python can really do in a signals and systems class. We used scipy, numpy, and matplotlib to create bode plots, do Laplace transforms, and for getting the coefficients required for creating multi stage analog (high pass, low pass, notch, etc.) filters. That was easily the most exciting part of the class. It got me thinking, "What else can I use Python for?" This lead me on a long google search. I learned I could use python for all kinds of things, like: machine learning, data analysis, image processing, etc. I also learned it was one of the main tools used in a field called data science. After some research it sounded like the perfect field for me. 

From there it would take about a year before I decided to enroll at Flatiron. I'm really glad I did. I've learned so much in such a short time and am looking forward to what I will learn. I'm planning to work on my electrical engineering bachelors once I finish and the program and hope to use both together to do some really amazing research. 
